Comp353/2 -F Fall 2024
Bipin C. DESAI
Group Project
Community Online Social Network -- COSN
Demos Dates: Early Dec. 2024 = to be posted in CrsMgr
Being concerned with the new form of colonialism/imperialism and ravage of the environment
by farms of data centers controlled by a limited number of foreign 1 corporations your group has
decided to create an open source system that can be used by local communities based on not for
profit organizations. Your objective is to design a relational database system for a “realistic”
Private Online Community Social Network System (COSN) sketched out below. This is
followed by an implementation, deployment and demo of a working system followed by making
required update of the system. It is expected that it would involve appropriate use of: CSS,
HTML, Javascript, MariaDB-MySQL, and PHP.
The application is a two-tier system, which support Firefox or any popular web browser at the
client side and secure http server with PHP parser and a MySQL database at the server side. The
system is expected to support all “representative” queries and operations required by a realistic
COSN system. Each team member will be responsible for the entire project with each teammate
being primarily responsible for an equitable and clearly defined portion of the project, to be
agreed on by the team members. You will be provided a 25 minutes time slot to demonstrate that
your system performs as expected in early Dec. 2024. A schedule for the demos will be posted
on CrsMgr (first come first reserve). The project report as well as tar-gzipped (or zipped) file
with the entire system including scripts to install and initialize a virgin system and details of all
updates and bug fixes made since the demo must be uploaded to CrsMgr soon after the demo
time.
Project Description
Use MySQL Database Management System to develop the Private Online Community Social
Network System - COSN. One of the objectiveis to first flesh out the requirement of the system
bearing in mind the minimum as sketched below. The application would include a collection of
tables and services hosted by COSN. Hence COSN would enable members to access a local
community based server to share information and ideas. It provides services for people sharing
interests, activities, and backgrounds among themselves. The COSN system allow its members
to create a profile, to create a list of other members with whom to share contents, and to view
and add comments and contents - if enabled by the owner member of the web page. It also
allows members to interact among each other via self-contained messaging system. The
objective is the sharing of news, pictures, posts, activities, events, interests with members in the
community. Also, it allows members to create groups that share common interests or affiliations
and hold discussions in forums.
1Mainly Usain!

Requirements Specification
You are required to develop a database system that will store at least the information about the
following entities and relationships:
Details

on members: ID, password, other personal information such as address, internal
interaction pseudonym etc. Members have family, friends and colleagues, privilege and status.
A member can specify what part of his/her personal information is public and what part is
accessible to which members of his/her group or is private.
A new person in the community can become a member by entering his details and validate it by
entering the required details such as the name and appropriate ID of an existing member or by
being introduced to the system by an existing member. Only public information is visible to
other non-members. Privilege can be either administrator, senior or junior. A member with an
administrator privilege has the full power on all services such as creation, deletion, editing of all
members and groups. The administrator could also post public items (accessible to the world). A
member can post new items and specify which of his groups can access the post and who in
each group can comment on it or add content to the post. An item could also be accessible to any
other members.
A member with a senior privilege can create groups and manipulate groups created by him/her.
The group is owned by the member who created it. Also, a member with a senior privilege can
add new members to the COSN. A member can add a list of members and specify them as family
members, friend members or colleague members. Status of a member can be either active,
inactive or suspended. An active member can have access to all the functionalities of a member.
An inactive member will not be visible to other members. A suspended member will not be able
to login to the COSN system until his/her status is changed.
All new members start by default as junior members. Only a member with an administrator
privilege can change the privilege of another member. The system by default has one member
with username admin and password admin created initially(Both of these must be changed after
the first login). Only members with administrator privileges can change the status of other
members to suspended or reset it to active or inactive. A member with junior privilege can edit
his/her profile, create a posting and communicate with other members. Also a junior member can
post to groups that he/she is a member of only. A junior member can request to become a senior
member. Each member can only have one profile including one email address.
When installed on a operational system with functioning email server, the system could send out
messages to indicate new contents to the members of the associated group. However, since there
is a restriction of sending emails by AITS (No email messages are allowed to be sent out of the
system), emails have to be simulated by a pop-up window and internal and sent email boxes.

Guidelines
Flesh out these guideline for you implementation.
Details

about groups: Records of information on each group, owner of the group, list of
members belonging to the group. Owner of the group can add new members or remove members
from the group. Members of a group can share a forum of information such as photos, videos and
posts. Adding any member to a group requires the knowledge of the persons email address 2, first
name and DOB. For a business member, the DOB is the date of incorporation of the business.
Each

member has a home page which has an index of his/her contents as well as the contents
of each of the groups where he is an owner or member. The owner has a feature to view and
manage the permissions to any content; the permissions can be changed only by the owner.
Detail

on contents and the permissions: Each content added by a member can have a profile
which indicates who can do what with it. Content can be classified as view only, view and
comment or view and add or link to other contents.
- Non-person entities3, local businesses, local organization etc. could become members as long as
they behave in a civil manner. The person members could always organize a plebiscite of person
members to oust an non-person member and delete its contents.
-The administrators include the contents moderators. Each new contents would be reviewed by
a moderator before it could be posted. Any uncivil contents is black-listed (not posted) and the
member posting it is warned about the non-conformity of the posted contents. A ‘real person.’
member is suspended for a duration of time once the number of warnings exceeds 3. A business
person is fined after the second warning. If the number of suspensions or fines exceeds 3, the
member is suspended for at least a year.
- The membership is free for a ‘real-person’ whereas for a business member there is a fee based
on the number of postings made by it.
These are the minimum requirements for your system. It is expected to discuss this application
among yourselves, with the tutors and lab instructors as well as talk to people knowledgeable in
the domain to enrich the application and make it more realistic4.

2 CONS will allow only Proton email addresses!
3The legislation in many jurisdictions has recognized a business corporation as a ‘person’ with all the rights but not
the responsibility of one. Hence the businesses have been able to get away with acts for which an ordinary
person is sent to jail! It is gratifying that the EU and some countries have started to take action to hold the CEO
responsible for the act of such non-person organizations.
4 Front Porch is an example of community on-line network that could, it is hoped, wipe out the existing
behemoths.

Implementation Details: Functions and Reports
Design and implement the user interface using HTML and PHP for the required operations
described above. Details on how to use PHP and HTML with MySQL will be provided by the
lab instructors. Populate your tables with enough data to show the functionality of your system.
The system should support at least the following functionalities through its interface:
1. Create/Delete/Edit/Display a member.
2. Create/Delete/Edit/Display a group.
3. Create/Delete/Edit/Display list of friends for a member.
4. Member request to be a friend of other member or join a group.
5. Member's ability to block another member or to be withdrawn from a group.
6. Member's ability to post texts, images or videos as well as to view posts by other members
and comment on them.
7. Members can either post or view posts of only groups that they belong to.
8. Member's main page shows the best and latest posts from their groups and friends.
9. Members can send a private message to their friends.
10. Report of groups or members by specific category such as interest, age, profession, region,
etc.
11. Ability to organize an event for the group by voting on date/time/place from a set posted and/
or alternates suggested by one of the group members
12. Registry and/or Gift exchange ideas among a family (secret Santa) or a group.
Note: The system would be run by an administrator on a private server (could be on a cloud).
There must be no facility to download any contents except through screen capture. Each team is
to implement the COSN system. The team must have a designated leader (DBA) who
coordinates the work. It is expected that the team is to meet regularly during lab hours and each
meeting is logged with the names of group members participating. In addition to the
implementation, the team is required to prepare a machine printed preliminary report
documenting their project which must include the E-R model, the DB design and its
normalization. This preliminary report is due before the demo. The implementation of the system
including the database system must be demonstrated by each team at a pre-designated time.
Remember that the database is the foundation of your system and if it is not sound, it will bring
the whole structure down. Just like the building foundation, the database is not visible; what is
visible is the structure above ground (in this case, the interface and its functionality). It must be
attractive, non-intrusive, non-intimidating and functional (a.k.a user friendly).
1. Develop an E/R diagram for the entity sets and relationships described above. Determine the
attributes and the multiplicity of the relationships. The design should be as compact as possible
without sacrificing the required objectives. Make sure you state clearly any reasonable
assumption made in your design, which is not specified in the requirements specified above.

2. Convert your E/R diagram into a relational database schema. Make necessary refinements to
the schema, if possible. Identify various integrity constraints such as primary keys, foreign keys,
functional dependencies, and referential constraints. Make sure that your database schema is at
least in 3NF.
Final Report & submissions
Your report should include: project description, the assumptions, the design decisions made and
give rational explanations for all assumptions, the limitations, the applications supported, E-R
diagrams and relational database design; responsibility of each member of the team and the joint
responsibility; the interface design rational, the script to create the database (clearing any old
tables and data that may be hanging around) and populate the tables. Include also the contents of
the tables, the queries, and their responses. In addition, the source code of any procedures,
triggers, programs, the dump of the database, etc., must also be submitted. Include the screen
shots of the interfaces for various members and a log of the entire session. Also, submit the online log of work done (who, when, what, why) mentioned above.
All programs/code/scripts must have adequate internal and external documentation. The project
submission would also include all codes etc. in a single directory with appropriate subdirectories. This directory could be compressed to a single file with its size limited to 15 Mbytes
which means you need to upload a tar-gzipped ball (or rar, zip, etc.). This tar-gzipped ball must
also include a report in LaTex or word processor form your project report documenting your
project and must include details on
➢
The design of the DB using an E/R data model.
➢
Its conversion into a relational model satisfying at least 3NF.
➢
The user-interface for each supported role, application and reports.
➢
A sample session for each application (user guide).
➢
An installation guide.
➢
All codes and scripts.(list only the directory structures and the names of all modules- not
the actual code: the code must be uploaded in the tarball to CrsMgr)
➢
List of team members’ contribution as its last part. The title of this section should be
“Contributions”, indicating who did what in the project. It is wise to be realistic since the lab
instructors will also evaluate each team member’s contributions.
Also include a "README" text file detailing the team (group) ID, the names, student IDs and
ENCS accounts of each member of the team, the group account, PW, URL for the project and list
of files included in the submission. Also include: the user IDs and passwords of all users for
testing the system and any other information required to install, run and test the system during
the final grading by the course professor on his own server.
For the demo, your system must be installed and running on a designated ENCS server.
If you have made changes, enhancements, fixed bugs, etc. since your demo then highlight these
in the README file and make sure it is also reflected in your final report. A working version of

the project should be presented by the group to the lab instructors during the presentation. Every
member of the group MUST be present during their demo.:
Note 1: The document report should be included in the upload. The source of the code you
demonstrate at demo time should be uploaded with your report at demo time as part of your
project report.
Note 2: Your project report must include official names of the team members, student ID's
clearly appearing on the cover. Inappropriate submissions will be penalized.

Bibliography:
- https://frontporchforum.com/about-us
Aurelien Breeden, Adam Satariano “Telegram Founder Charged With Wide Range of Crimes in
France”, https://www.nytimes.com/2024/08/28/business/telegram-ceo-pavel-durov-charged.html
-Nikolas Bowie. “Corporate Personhood v. Corporate Statehood”, https://harvardlawreview.org/
print/vol-132/corporate-personhood-v-corporate-statehood/
Luis Chinchilla Fuentes,”Corporations as Citizenship, the next step in corporate personhood”
https://www.mcgill.ca/humanrights/article/corporations-citizenship-next-step-corporatepersonhood
-Andrew Liptak, “How a Vermont social network became a model for online communities:”,
https://www.theverge.com/2019/1/24/18129437/front-porch-forum-vermont-social-networklistserv-local-online-community
-Josh Kramer, “The Vermont miracle: How one local platform is rewriting the rules of social
media” , https://newpublic.substack.com/p/the-vermont-miracle-how-one-local
=Benjy Radcliffe, “The Corporation as a Person: Legal Fact or Fiction?”,
https://www.thecourt.ca/the-corporation-as-a-person-legal-fact-or-fiction/
=Ty Roush, “Secret Service Investigating Elon Musk’s X Post About Assassination Threats
Against Biden And Harris, Report Says”, https://www.forbes.com/sites/tylerroush/2024/09/19/
secret-service-investigating-elon-musks-x- post-about-assassination-threats-against-biden-andharris-report-says/
Nina Totenberg, “When Did Companies Become People? Excavating The Legal Evolution”,
https://www.npr.org/2014/07/28/335288388/when-did-companies-become-people-excavatingthe-legal-evolution

Adam Winkler, “We the Corporations: How American Businesses Won Their Civil Rights:,
WW. Norton & Co, ISBN: 978-6-87140-384-1
Adam Winkler, ‘Corporations Are People’ Is Built on an Incredible 19th-Century Lie.
https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2018/03/corporations-people-adam-winkler/
554852/

